Hello, I have some questions regarding your meditation instructions
<http://www.mro.org/zmm/teachings/meditation.php> 

Regarding "The tongue is pressed lightly against the upper palate." -
is the upper palate hard or soft? 

Regarding "You're breathing through the nose and you're tasting the
breath" - when I breathe through my nose, I dont taste the breath at
all. I dont even notice it on my tongue. Perhaps at the nostrils but
in no way do I taste it. Is this something that one notices after
extended practice? Even so, isnt air odorless and tasteless? How could
you taste the breath?


Regarding "The only agreement that you make with yourself in this
process is that if your mind begins to wander - if you become aware
that what you're doing is chasing thoughts - you will look at the
thought, acknowledge it, and then deliberately and consciously let it
go and begin the count again at one." - what do you do if a chain of
thoughts/reactions occurs? For example, let's say that an unpleasant
image comes to mind. Then I flinch in disgust. Then I think 'how could
I ever have seen such a thing'. By the time I've caught the chain of
thought/action, 3 thoughts/action have occurred - the initial thought,
the reaction and the reaction to that. My question is: given that I am
supposed to look at _the_ thought, acknowledge it, then deliberately
and consciously let it go, what is _the_ thought in this case, since
there are 3 actions that could be considered _the_ thought? In one
sense, you might want to observe the root thought that started the
chain of thought/action. On the other hand, you might want to observe
the tail end of the chain. But I would like to know what you think is
best. 


