"A Higher Consciousness" by Ishwar Puri

http://www.ISHANEWS.org
http://www.HAZURSAWANISHARPURI.com

When perfect living masters mention higher consciousness, they do not
refer to an altered state of consciousness. They do not refer to a new
awareness, something that we are not experiencing everyday. They
really mean something higher, more desireable, more durable, more
permanent, more akin to our real nature, more real in fact. Therefore
it is best to understand how we use the word consciousness and
awareness so that we can understand what is meant by higher
consciousness. 

When we talk of consciousness, generally it means we are conscious of
something and that is why we call it consciousness. When we say we are
conscious of something, it is generally understood in the sense of
being aware, just knowing through senses or otherwise. Even memory
would be a sort of awareness. So when we are aware of something, we
say we are conscious of something. In that sense, something that we
have forgotten would not be called consciousness. Something that is
not immediately available for awareness but can be recalled would not
be called consciousness. This is not the term in which the great mystics
and masters have used the word consciousness. They have not said
consciousness is only what is available now. Consciousness for them
means all possible potential awareness. 

Therefore, they distinguish between what is consciousness and what is
awareness. Awareness is what is immediately available and
consciousness is what is potentially available in the past, present or
future or in any other dimension. 

Let us then consider what is meant by higher consciousness. Does it
mean change of awareness? Does it mean recall of something that is not
available now? Or does it only mean a strictly higher consciousness in
a level of experience that is different from all levels of experience
at one plane such as the physical plane in which we are normally
experiencing consciousness through the physical body? 

To make it more
simple, I would put this question, when we talk of higher
consciousness are we including in higher consciousness dreamlike
states, trancelike states in which the awareness is altered but is no
different than the awareness of other things that happen on the
physical plane? That it is not much more real than the physical
awareness in the wakeful state. What would we consider the
recollection of a past life? Is it a higher consciousness? Or is it
merely expanded awareness?

According to the perfect masters, all these experiences of bringing
into the awareness that which is not immediately available is only
expansion of consciousness or expansion of awareness and does not mean
any higher awareness or higher consciousness.

