\documentclass[12pt]{report}
\usepackage{hyperref}   % use for hypertext links, including those to external documents and URLs
\usepackage{makeidx} 
\makeindex

\begin{document}

\title{Reality in 40 Verses}
\author{Ramana Maharishi}
\maketitle


\tableofcontents

\chapter{Introduction}

\chapter{Invocation}

\section{i}
\section{ii}

\chapter{Text}


\section{1}

\begin{quote}
Because the world is seen, we have to infer a common (a Lord)
possessing unlimited powers to appear as the diversity. The pictures
consisting of names and forms, the seer, the canvas, the light ----
all these are He Himself.
\end{quote}

\index{world}\index{Lord}\index{diversity}\index{Self}

The Forty begins here. To understand Bhagavan's meaning we have to use
the key with which he supplies us in the Invocation. There he declares
Reality to be the thought-free Awareness which dwells in the
heart. Here he brings in the world in order to meet on their own
ground those disciples who do perceive a ``real'' external world. He
is saying something like this: ``You see a world and ascribe an
omnipotent creator to it. But as we have already seen, this creation
is only an appearance, a manifestation of that Awareness of which we
were speaking. It has no more reality in itself than have the pictures
projected on a screen.'' From the heart thoughts spontaneously rise,
like vapour from the ocean, and turn into a kaleidoscopic world of
names, forms, colours, sounds, smells and other impressions. These are
in it, or on it as on a canvas of which the heart is itself the seer
and the sight.

Pure Consciousness or Pure Mind is thus the pictures, the screen, the
seer, and the light or sight.

\section{1}

\begin{quote}

\end{quote}

\index{body}\index{sheathes}\index{world}\index{ghost}

\section{2}

\begin{quote}
On three entities — the individual, God and the world — every creed is
based. The saying the One becomes the
three as well as ``always the three are three'', are said only while
the ego lasts. To lose the ``I'' and abide in the Self  is the Supreme
State. 
\end{quote}

\index{individual}\index{God}\index{world}\index{creed}\index{Self}
\section{1}

\begin{quote}

\end{quote}

\index{body}\index{sheathes}\index{world}\index{ghost}


\section{5}

\begin{quote}
The body is in the form of, and includes, the 5 sheathes. Is there a
world apart from the body? Has anyone without a body seen the world?
\end{quote}

\index{body}\index{sheathes}\index{world}\index{ghost}

The body is a complex structure containing a large number of
instruments or organs which the Self, as ego uses for a large number
of purposes, including among others those of hearing, smelling,
seeing, thinking, feeling, memorizing and reasoning. The materials out
of which these instruments or parts are made vary from the grossest to
the finest. The emph{Shastras} (scriptures) have arranged them in five
groups. To each group one sheath of \emph{kosha} is assigned. The
\emph{kosha} dealing with purely physical matter is called
\emph{annamayakosha} (the sheat of food). The \emph{pranamayakosha}
(the vital sheath) looks after the fivefold functions of the vital
energies --- breathing, assimilatin, generation, excretion and
locomotion. The \emph{manomayakosha} (mental sheath) contains the
faculties of mentation. The \emph{vijnanamayakosha} is the sheath of
the intellectual and reasoning faculties, of scientific and
philosophic thinking, and last is the \emph{anandamayakosha}, the
sheath of bliss, or causal sheath, which stores up within itslef the
karmic seeds of every birth and is concerned with that state in which
profound peace is enjoyed by the dreamless sleeper. This \emph{kosha}
is made of the finest substance, \emph{sattva}, which in itself is
happy, due to its freedom from grossness and its close proximity to
the blissful Self.

Thus the term body includes all these \emph{koshas}, whose appearance
and disappearance cause the appearance and disappearance of all
objective and subjective perceptions. Assumption of a body is
therefore necessary for the world's enjoyment and the body owes its
existence, as we shall see in the next verse, to the five senses,
which are the properties of the mind.

\section{10}

\begin{quote}
Knowledge and ignorance are interrelated: the one does not exist
without the other. Inquiring to whom is it that knowledge and that
ignorance, and arriving at their root cause, the Self, this is true
knowledge. 
\end{quote}

\index{knowledge}\index{ignorance}\index{inquiry}\index{Self}

To speak of ignorance is to admit its opposite --- knowledge --- and
\emph{vice versa}. Until we become aware of an object we remain
ignorant of its existence. To learn a lesson is to admit our previous
ignorance of its content. Knowledge is thus the light which clears
away the darkness of ignorance. But knowledge and ignorance which
pertain to external objects are mere modes of thought. They come and
go, and are therefore of no consequence in the search for Truth. What
is of consequence is their knower, who is fixed, changeless, also
called first principle because he is efficient, causeless, the eternal
thinker, who precedes and survives all his thoughts --- ``the basic
One'' (verse nine).

\section{15}

\begin{quote}
On the present the past and the future stand. They too are the present
in their times. Thus the present alone exists. Ignoring the present,
and seeking to know the past and the future, is like trying to count
without the initial unit.
\end{quote}

The present \emph{is} always, for even the past was the present in its
time, and so also will the future be the present in \emph{its}
time. Whatever happens therefore happens only in the present. When
Methuselah was born, he was born in the present, and when he died
after 9 or 10 centuries he died also in the present, despite the later
date. Similarly all that happened to him between those two events
happened also in the present. Thus the present is the only significant
tense in actuality. Moreover, let us not forget the fact that time is
made of instants which are so minute as to have no room either for a
past or for a future, but for the present alone. The next verse will
tell us that even the present is unreal, being one of the notions of
our mind, as past and future are --- acts of our memory.

\index{present}
\index{future}
\index{past}

\section{16}

\begin{quote}
Do time and space exist apart from us? If we are the body we are
affected by time and space. But are we the body? We are the same now,
then and forever.
\end{quote}

\index{time}\index{space}\index{body}

Of course time and space are mere concepts in us. Because in our long
journey in life we pass through multitudes of experiences, we have to
conceive past, present and future in order to arrange them
conveniently in their sequence of occurence in our memory. Because we
perceive multiplicity, we have to conceive a space in which to
accomodate them, like the screen on which cinematograph pictures are
spread. Without a screen there can be no pictures. The screen on which
the universe actually appears and moves is thus our own mind, from
which it emanates as thoughts, either of external physical objects, or
of internal concepts, sensations, emotions, including the senses of
time and space. 

Those who take themselves for the body take \emph{time} to be the
creator and destroyer of all things, and thus it inspires them with
great fear --- fear of future calamaties, of death, of loss of fortune
and position, or whatever it may be. Many of them consult astrologers
to read the decrees of time and foretell events long in advance of
their occurrence. To them birth, youth, old age and death; creation,
preservation and dissolution; past, present and future; health and
disease, prosperity and adversity all exist without the shadow of a
doubt: they fall prey to time and its vagaries. The others who know
themselves to be pure spirit are bodiless, timeless and spaceless; and
Bhagavan affirms, they are thus free from the hallucination of ``We
alone are; time and space are not''.


\section{23}

\begin{quote}
The body does not say ``I''. In sleep no one admits he is not. The
``I'' emerging, all else emerges. Inquire with a keen mind whence this
``I'' arises.
\end{quote}

The body, being insentient, knows nothing about ``I'' and ``not-I'',
yet the ``I'' persists with or without a body -- in the waking state
or in sleep or swoon - as the man who himself wakes, swoons and
sleeps. To know the true nature of this perennial ``I'', we have to
conduct an inquiry into its source.

\index{body}
\index{sleep}
\index{inquiry}
\index{I}

\chapter{Index}
\printindex

\end{document}
